# Getting Started for Students

Before you can make submissions, you will need an account on [submit.cs][1].
Either click on the "Create Account" tab from the site or follow [this link][2]
to create an account. You must enter your umail email address. Upon submission
you will receive an email (to your umail) which will allow you to set a password
for your account.


## Joining a Class

Once your account is created you will need to join the appropriate class. Login
to submit.cs and click the "Join Class" tab. Clicking the button for the
appropriate class will join to the the class and subsequently allow you to view
which projects are available for submission.


## Submitting a Project

From your user page (click on the "Home" tab to return to that page) you will
see the list of classes that you have joined (as well as recent submissions made
to various projects). Clicking on the link for a particular class will show you
the list of projects that are ready for submission. For the desired project,
click the "Make Submission".

From this page you can directly upload your files and make a submission.
Alternatively, the command-line necessary in order to submit through a CSIL, or
CS lab machine, is provided on this page. Whether you submit via the website or
via the command line, the system will not allow you to make a submission with
unexpected filenames. However, at the time of this writing, the submission
system will not prevent you from submitting too few files. The expected
filenames can be found as part of the command line string.


## Joining a group

Some projects will allow group submissions. To facilitate your submissions as a
group you must create a group in the submission system. From the project page,
where you can view all your submissions, click on the "Join Group" button. The
subsequent page will allow you to accept and reject invitations from your
classmates, as well invite one of your classmates by their umail address to join
your group.

While multiple students can invite you to join a group, the system only permits
you to have one outstanding invite at a time. You must revoke an invite if you
would like to invite someone else. Once grouped together, all the members of a
group will be able to see all the submissions made by everyone in the group for
that project, regardless of when the submission was made.

**Note:** The group joining procedure must be repeated for each project.

